# BIOMD0000000495: MODEL1310130000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000495.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000495.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Sen2013 - Phospholipid Synthesis in P.knowlesi

The model describes the multiple phospholipid synthetic pathways in Plasmodium
knowlesi.

This model is described in the article:

[Kinetic modelling of phospholipid synthesis in Plasmodium knowlesi unravels
crucial steps and relative importance of multiple
pathways.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/24209716)

Sen P, Vial HJ, Radulescu O.

BMC Syst Biol 2013 Nov; 7(1): 123

Abstract:

BACKGROUND: Plasmodium is the causal parasite of malaria, infectious disease
responsible for the death of up to one million people each year.
Glycerophospholipid and consequently membrane biosynthesis are essential for
the survival of the parasite and are targeted by a new class of antimalarial
drugs developed in our lab. In order to understand the highly redundant
phospholipid synthethic pathways and eventual mechanism of resistance to
various drugs, an organism specific kinetic model of these metabolic pathways
need to be developed in Plasmodium species. RESULTS: Fluxomic data were used
to build a quantitative kinetic model of glycerophospholipid pathways in
Plasmodium knowlesi. In vitro incorporation dynamics of phospholipids unravels
multiple synthetic pathways. A detailed metabolic network with values of the
kinetic parameters (maximum rates and Michaelis constants) has been built. In
order to obtain a global search in the parameter space, we have designed a
hybrid, discrete and continuous, optimization method. Discrete parameters were
used to sample the cone of admissible fluxes, whereas the continuous Michaelis
and maximum rates constants were obtained by local minimization of an
objective function.The model was used to predict the distribution of fluxes
within the network of various metabolic precursors.The quantitative analysis
was used to understand eventual links between different pathways. The major
source of phosphatidylcholine (PC) is the CDP-choline Kennedy pathway.In
silico knock-out experiments showed comparable importance of
phosphoethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PMT) and
phosphatidylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PEMT) for PC synthesis.The flux
values indicate that, major part of serine derived phosphatidylethanolamine
(PE) is formed via serine decarboxylation, whereas major part of
phosphatidylserine (PS) is formed by base-exchange reactions.Sensitivity
analysis of CDP-choline pathway shows that the carrier-mediated choline entry
into the parasite and the phosphocholine cytidylyltransferase reaction have
the largest sensitivity coefficients in this pathway, but does not distinguish
a reaction as an unique rate-limiting step. CONCLUSION: We provide a fully
parametrized kinetic model for the multiple phospholipid synthetic pathways in
P. knowlesi. This model has been used to clarify the relative importance of
the various reactions in these metabolic pathways. Future work extensions of
this modelling strategy will serve to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms
governing the development of Plasmodium during its blood stages, as well as
the mechanisms of action of drugs on membrane biosynthetic pathways and
eventual mechanisms of resistance.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000495](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000495) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


